---
title: OC Land Use 1966
created: '2020-11-12T12:26:15.969748'
modified: '2020-11-12T12:26:15.969759'
state: active
type: dataset
tags:
  - Commercial
  - Historic
  - Land Use
  - Open Space
  - Planning
  - Residential
  - Urban Planning
groups:
  - Local Government
csv_url: >-
  https://data.ferndalemi.gov/datasets/f3b770fd11da46a5ada9a009eec23c9f_0.csv?outSR=%7B%22latestWkid%22%3A3857%2C%22wkid%22%3A102100%7D
json_url: ''
layout: post

---
<div>BY USING THIS WEBSITE OR THE CONTENT THEREIN, YOU AGREE TO THE <u><a href='https://www.oakgov.com/open-data-terms'>TERMS OF USE</a></u><span style='font-family: &quot;Avenir Next W01&quot;, &quot;Avenir Next W00&quot;, &quot;Avenir Next&quot;, Avenir, &quot;Helvetica Neue&quot;, Helvetica, Arial, sans-serif; font-size: 17px;'>. </span></div><div><span>The primary purpose of this data is to be used by Oakland County 
Planning and Economic Development Services, other County departments, 
and and local communities for planning purposes.  The two major uses are
 cartographic output and creating summaries at various spatial extents.

</span><br /><br /><span>The intent of this feature class was to provide a 
very general representation of a hard copy 1966 land use map.  The 
spatial accuracy and number of vertices used to represent each feature 
was limited by the intended purpose of the data.

<br /><br />The land use features were heads-up digitized from a 1966 land 
use map that was scanned and georefereneced using each section corner as
 a control point.  The features were digitized at a scale not greater 
than 1:15,000, one square-mile section at a time.  After the entire 
county was completely digitized, the features were dissolved based on 
the Landuse.

<br /><br />Right-of-Way was burned in to the final feature class using the 
following process.  First, the current RoadCenterline feature class was 
modifed to reflect roads in 1966 using the scanned 1966 land use map and
 1963 orthophotography as a reference.  Next, the road lines were 
buffered at specified distanced based on the RoadCode attribute from 
RoadCenterline to create polygons.  Major Roads were split into two 
types (Perscriptive Easement and Dedicated) based on if the adjacent 
property was platted prior to 1966.  According to the Oakland County 
Register of Deeds, in 1966 Oakland County was recording documents in 
liber 120.  For the purpose of this feature class it was assumed that 
simultaneous conveyances recorded in liber 120 or earlier existed in 
1966.  Major roads that intersected or were adjacent with these 
simultaneous conveyances were classified as Dedicated and the remainder 
of Major Roads were classified as a Perscriptive Easement.  The buffer 
distances, representing half the total Right-of-Way width, used for each
 road code are listed below:

     <br /><br /></span><ul><li><span>Minor Road - 30 feet
</span></li><li><span>     Major Road (Perscriptive Easement) - 33 feet
     </span></li><li><span>Major Road (Dedicated) - 46.5 feet
     </span></li><li><span>State Highway - 46.5 feet
</span></li><li><span>U.S. Highway - 46.5 feet
</span></li><li><span>     Interstate - 60 feet feet

</span></li></ul><span>These Right-of-Way widths generally approximate 
those that actually existed in 1966 and are not intended to indicate the
 exact width of a specific Right-of-Way.  All areas completely 
surrounded by Right-of-Way such as between directions of travel of a 
boulevard or interstate or the area inside of a freeway interchange were
 manually attributed as Right-of-Way.

<br /><br />Water features were burned in the final feature class using a 
modified version the of the Oakland County Waterbody feature class.  
This data was modified to reflect waterbodies in 1966 using the 1966 
land use map and 1963 orthophotography as a reference.

Lastly, the features that intersected community boudaries were split 
using the Identity tool to increase cartographic and analytic 
performance.</span></div>
