---
title: OC Land Use 2012
created: '2020-11-12T12:26:25.025953'
modified: '2020-11-12T12:26:25.025960'
state: active
type: dataset
tags:
  - Commercial
  - Environment
  - Land Cover
  - Land Use
  - Open Space
  - Open Space Planning
  - Planning
  - Residential
groups:
  - Local Government
csv_url: >-
  https://data.ferndalemi.gov/datasets/cc9c87adb75c4df8be74ee3fc0454ce8_12.csv?outSR=%7B%22latestWkid%22%3A3857%2C%22wkid%22%3A102100%7D
json_url: ''
layout: post

---
<div>BY USING THIS WEBSITE OR THE CONTENT THEREIN, YOU AGREE TO THE <u><a href='https://www.oakgov.com/open-data-terms'>TERMS OF USE</a></u><span style='font-family: &quot;Avenir Next W01&quot;, &quot;Avenir Next W00&quot;, &quot;Avenir Next&quot;, Avenir, &quot;Helvetica Neue&quot;, Helvetica, Arial, sans-serif; font-size: 17px;'>. </span></div><div>A spatial representation of land use. The polygons contained in this 
feature class were derived from the Oakland County Tax Parcel feature 
class. Each parcel was categorized by its land use. When a parcel has 
multiple land uses, the dominant land use is shown. <br /><br />Assessing 
records and orthophotography were the main sources used to attribute 
each tax parcel with land use information. The data was collected in 
2012. <br /><br />Key attributes are the land use and key pin (Sidwell 
number). Land Use stores the Land Use description for each parcel. The 
Key Pin is the unique Parcel Identification Number (Pin) used to link 
the parcel to the parcel attributes which are stored and maintained in 
Oakland County Land Records.<br /><br />The 2012 version of land use was 
created using the 2011 version as a primary source. It was assumed that 
if the Parcel Identification Number and the Use Code were equal in both 
years, then the land use did not change. Thus, only the parcels where a 
change occured had to be assigned a land use. To ensure the quality of 
the land use data, however, several types of use codes were manually 
checked again for this update to enusre the assigned use is still 
accurate. Also, reference data such as the Adult Care, Public Beach, and
 Recreation Land feature classes the were used to locate misrepresented 
parcels. <br /><br />The development process consists of three basic steps. 
First, parcels with use codes that are assumed to relate to a single 
land use are categorized as such. Second, parcels with a use code that 
is assumed to relate to more than one land use are manually classified 
using orthophotography and ownership as a reference. Lastly, tax 
parcels, right-of-way, and hydrography are unioned to create a single 
land use dataset.<br /><br />Assumptions: <br /><br />In 2005, Oakland County 
Equalization and many of the local assessors have changed from using the
 use codes described below to property class codes. These codes were 
interpreted to simliar use codes for the purpose of this data. One major
 change is that tax exempt property is no longer recorded using the &quot;ME,
 Miscellaneous Exempt&quot; use code, but are instead usually classifed as 
&quot;RV, Residential Vacant.&quot; The &quot;Taxable&quot; field was referenced to locate 
tax exempt property such as schools, churches, and governemnt-owned 
property during this land use update. <br /><br />Any parcel classified as 
vacant may be an accessory use to an adjacent, commonly owned, improved 
parcel. In this event, the vacant parcel is reclassified as the use of 
the adjacent, commonly owned, improved parcel. It should be noted, 
however, that parcels with use codes of RV, SV, and LV, that represent a
 single family vacant use, are exempt from this assumption. <br /><br />Parcels
 with an Equalization use code of RV, SV, or LV may include uses to be 
reclassified as Vacant or Recreation &amp; Conservation (due to 
subdivision open space). These parcels are not manually checked. Queries
 are conducted to search for those parcels that are subdivision open 
space. The following strings are queried from the Owner1 and Owner2 
fields: &quot;*own*&quot; (unknown, homeowner), &quot;ass*&quot; (association, ass'n, etc), 
and &quot;park.&quot; <br /><br />The Equalization use code BI, Business Improved 
includes uses that are reclassified as Commercial/Office. Uses may also 
fall into Public/Institutional, however, all BI parcels are not manually
 checked for reclassification. <br /><br />The Equalization use code MM, 
Miscellaneous Business includes uses that are reclassified as Recreation
 and Conservation, Multiple Family, Commercial/Office, or Mobile Home 
Park. <br /><br />The Equalization use code ME, Miscellaneous Exempt 
includes uses that are reclassified as Recreation &amp; Conservation, 
Public/Institutional, Transportation, Utility &amp; Communication, 
Industrial (municipal landfills), or any Single Family classification. <br /><br />The
 Equalization use code KI, Condominium Improved includes uses that are 
reclassified as Multiple Family, Single Family, or Commercial/Office. <br /><br />Any
 parcel with an Equalization use code of FI, Farm Improved or FV, Farm 
Vacant is considered to be an active agricultural use. <br /><br />Any parcel with an Equalization use code of II, Industrial Improved is considered to be an industrial use. <br /><br />Any parcel with an Equalization use code of FC, Farm Conservation is considered to be a recreational/conservation use. <br /><br />Any parcel with an Equalization use code of AI, Apartment Improved is considered to be a multiple family residential use. <br /><br />Any
 parcel with an Equalization use code of UI, Utility Improved is 
considered to be a transportation, utility, or communication related 
use. <br /><br />Parcels with an Equalization use code of DI, Developmental Improved are reclassified as Single Family or Vacant. <br /><br />Any
 parcel with an Equalization use code of DV for Developmental Vacant may
 be reclassified as Vacant, Recreation &amp; Conservation, (golf 
courses) or Industrial (mining or extractive). <br /><br />Polygons in the 
ROW region of the parcel coverage will be classified as Recreation and 
Conservation, and Commercial/Office, Vacant, Road ROW, and Railroad ROW.
 <br /><br />Because of inconsistencies in Use Code data, unique uses, and 
the goal of creating an accurate coverage that is not limited by its 
metadata, there may be exceptions from these assumptions. <br /><br />Exceptions: <br /><br />There
 are nine isolated cases where the land use would be tremendously 
overstated if the whole parcel was shown in a single use. In these 
cases, the polygon was split to show the use of the rest of the parcel 
vacant. These parcels are listed below: <br />01-29-451-001 <br />01-35-300-014 <br />04-08-200-002 <br />04-24-100-004 <br />07-13-301-006 <br />14-04-376-002 <br />18-19-476-015 <br />21-10-200-001 <br />21-10-200-002</div>
