---
title: OC Land Use 2003
created: '2020-11-12T12:26:22.628323'
modified: '2020-11-12T12:26:22.628332'
state: active
type: dataset
tags:
  - Commercial
  - Environment
  - Land Use
  - Open Space
  - Open Space Planning
  - Planning
  - Residential
groups:
  - Local Government
csv_url: >-
  https://data.ferndalemi.gov/datasets/b1f3106bb9254e56912c5927177c5cd0_3.csv?outSR=%7B%22latestWkid%22%3A3857%2C%22wkid%22%3A102100%7D
json_url: ''
layout: post

---
<div>BY USING THIS WEBSITE OR THE CONTENT THEREIN, YOU AGREE TO THE <u><a href='https://www.oakgov.com/open-data-terms'>TERMS OF USE</a></u><span style='font-family: &quot;Avenir Next W01&quot;, &quot;Avenir Next W00&quot;, &quot;Avenir Next&quot;, Avenir, &quot;Helvetica Neue&quot;, Helvetica, Arial, sans-serif; font-size: 17px;'>. </span></div><div><span>A spatial representation of land use.  The polygons contained in 
this feature class were derived from the Oakland County Tax Parcel 
feature class.  Each parcel was categorized by its land use.  When a 
parcel has multiple land uses, the dominant land use is shown. <br /><br />Assessing
 records and orthophotography were the main sources used to attribute 
each tax parcel with land use information.  The data was collected in 
2003. <br /><br />Key attributes are the land use and key pin (Sidwell 
number).  Land Use stores the Land Use description for each parcel.  The
 Key Pin is the unique Parcel Identification Number (Pin) used to link 
the parcel to the parcel attributes which are stored and maintained in 
Oakland County Land Records.<br /><br />The 2003 version of land use was 
created using the 2002 version as a primary source.  It was assumed that
 if the Parcel Identification Number and the Use Code were equal in both
 years, then the land use did not change.  Thus, only the parcels where a
 change occured had to be assigned a land use.<br /><br />The development 
process consists of three basic steps.  First, parcels with use codes 
that are assumed to relate to a single land use are categorized as 
such.  Second, parcels with a use code that is assumed to relate to more
 than one land use are manually classified using orthophotography and 
ownership as a reference. Lastly, tax parcels, right-of-way, and 
hydrography are unioned to create a single land use dataset.<br /><br />Assumptions:<br /><br />Any
 parcel classified as vacant may be an accessory use to an adjacent, 
commonly owned, improved parcel.  In this event, the vacant parcel is 
reclassified as the use of the adjacent, commonly owned, improved 
parcel.  It should be noted, however, that parcels with use codes of RV,
 SV, and LV, that represent a single family vacant use, are exempt from 
this assumption.<br /><br />Parcels with an Equalization use code of RV, SV,
 or LV may include uses to be reclassified as Vacant or Recreation &amp;
 Conservation (due to subdivision open space).  These parcels are not 
manually checked.  Queries are conducted to search for those parcels 
that are subdivision open space.  The following strings are queried from
 the Owner1 and Owner2 fields: &quot;*own*&quot; (unknown, homeowner), &quot;ass*&quot; 
(association, ass'n, etc), and &quot;park.&quot;<br /><br />The Equalization use code 
BI, Business Improved includes uses that are reclassified as 
Commercial/Office.  Uses may also fall into Public/Institutional, 
however, all BI parcels are not manually checked for reclassification.<br /><br />The
 Equalization use code MM, Miscellaneous Business includes uses that are
 reclassified as Recreation and Conservation, Multiple Family, 
Commercial/Office, or Mobile Home Park.<br /><br />The Equalization use code
 ME, Miscellaneous Exempt includes uses that are reclassified as 
Recreation &amp; Conservation, Public/Institutional, Transportation, 
Utility &amp; Communication, Industrial (municipal landfills), or any 
Single Family classification.<br /><br />The Equalization use code KI, 
Condominium Improved includes uses that are reclassified as Multiple 
Family, Single Family, or Commercial/Office. <br /><br />Any parcel with an Equalization use code of FI, Farm Improved or FV, Farm Vacant is considered to be an active agricultural use.<br /><br />Any parcel with an Equalization use code of II, Industrial Improved is considered to be an industrial use.<br /><br />Any parcel with an Equalization use code of FC, Farm Conservation is considered to be a recreational/conservation use.<br /><br />Any parcel with an Equalization use code of AI, Apartment Improved is considered to be a multiple family residential use.<br /><br />Any
 parcel with an Equalization use code of UI, Utility Improved is 
considered to be a transportation, utility, or communication related 
use.<br /><br />Parcels with an Equalization use code of DI, Developmental Improved are reclassified as Single Family or Vacant.<br /><br />Any
 parcel with an Equalization use code of DV for Developmental Vacant may
 be reclassified as Vacant, Recreation &amp; Conservation, (golf 
courses) or Industrial (mining or extractive).<br /><br />Polygons in the 
ROW region of the parcel coverage will be classified as Recreation and 
Conservation, and Commercial/Office, Vacant, Road ROW, and Railroad ROW.<br /><br />Because
 of inconsistencies in Use Code data, unique uses, and the goal of 
creating an accurate coverage that is not limited by its metadata, there
 may be exceptions from these assumptions.<br /><br />Exceptions:<br /><br />There
 are nine isolated cases where the land use would be tremendously 
overstated if the whole parcel was shown in a single use.  In these 
cases, the polygon was split to show the use of the rest of the parcel 
vacant.  These parcels are listed below:<br /><br />     01-29-451-001<br />     01-35-300-014<br />     04-08-200-002<br />     04-24-100-004<br />     07-13-301-006<br />     14-04-376-002<br />     18-19-476-015<br />     21-10-200-001<br />     21-10-200-002</span></div>
